# $Id: help5.txt,v 1.1.1.1 2006/04/18 20:17:27 taylor Exp $

4. Reference: Menu Selections
------------------

This page describes each of the menu selections and the options for
the dialogs they invoke.


4.1 File Menu

This menu controls the saving and restoring of the information in the
applications diagram. When you first come up, the canvas is blank and
the application name is set to the default, "new". You can rename the
application via the save-as menu or load in an existing application
via the "open" menu.

New: Begin a new workspace.
	the canvas is cleared and a new workspace is begun. You will be
asked if you wish to save the current workspace if there is unsaved work
on the canvas.

Open: Open an existing, previously saved workspace.
	A dialog appears to help you enter the pathname. Normally
workspaces end in the tag ".prw". You may either enter the pathname at
the top, or use the Subdirectory and Workspace selection boxes below
it. After entering or selecting, push the OK button. To move up to the
parent directory of the one shown in the "Enter file name" field, use
the "Parent Directory" button on the left. NOTE: When you open a
workspace, the preferences that were in effect at the time that
workspace was saved will once more be in effect, replacing the
current preferences. Thus you may need to open up the preferences
editor (Tools menu) and put things back the way you like them.

Save: Save the current workspace in an existing file.
	If the current workspace has been opened from a workspace
(-.prw) file, or has been previously saved, the current workspace will
be saved to that file. Otherwise a "save-as" entry will be performed.

Save As: Save the current workspace in a new file.
	A dialog appears for you to name the new workspace file. See
"Open" above for a description of the entry and button usage. You
should, but are not required to, choose a name ending in
".prw". Following this convention will simplify future work.

Quit: Save and exit the builder.


4.2 Edit Menu

This menu controls general functions for changing or restoring the
workspace. Currently only three options are installed:

Cut: Delete all selected modules from the canvas, along with links
     connected to the module.
	To select the module(s), drag out a rectangle that includes
the module(s) to be deleted. (Refer to Section 2, "Graphics and Mouse
Conventions".) 

Redraw: Erase the canvas and redraw the same application.
	This is useful if the diagram has become corrupted for some
reason with graphic "litter", or if you have changed your color
preferences and wish to have them applied to the current workspace.

Erase-all: Erase the canvas without saving.
	Since this results in the loss of the current workspace, you
will be asked to confirm your choice.


4.3 View Menu

The View menu allows you to view the source data pertaining to the
current workspace in a separate window.

Selected Module Config: 
	This displays the .cfg file for the selected module. (See
"Graphic and Mouse Conventions" for selecting modules.) If more than
one module is selected, the first one in the selection list is
displayed. The path to the <module>.cfg file is taken by looking in the
"pirate_directory" preference (Tools | Edit Preferences) for the
"modules" directory, the "family" subdirectory, and the "module" name
followed by .cfg.

Selected Terminals:
	This displays class and type information about all currently
selected input/output terminals.  This information is taken out of
the corresponding module config files.  The presentation here is 
more convenient for viewing the declarations of proposed connections
at the same time.

Compiled Application:
	If the application XX.prw has been compiled, the resulting
XX.spec file is displayed. 

Application Config:
	If the application XX.prw has been compiled, the resulting
XX.cfg template is displayed. This template is used to supply the
startup options to the application.

Internal Representation:
	The values of the main internal variables are shown. This is
useful only if you are debugging. 


4.4 Modules Menu

The Modules menu offers the opportunity to modify the handling of
selected modules.

Edit Parameters for Selected Modules...
	An entry dialog is displayed showing required, optional, and
fixed parameters for the module. Required and optional parameters may
be edited; any default values present in the module's .cfg file are
present initially in the entry fields. 

Group Selected Input (Output) Terminals into a Set: 
	Oftentimes a series of output or input sensors are distinct
but very similar, and connect to distinct but similar portions of the
diagram. For example, there may be three (or N) pressure sensors; each
of them are passed to a separate subdiagram in the workspace, but
these subdiagrams are all identical except for which pressure sensor
they read. In such cases, the N subdiagrams can be drawn once instead
of N times. The way you indicate this on the diagram is to combine the
N sensor terminals into one "super" output terminal. The system
remembers that this super output terminal is really a set of N
separate but parallel sensors, and that the portion of the workspace
into which this super terminal flows is actually N separate but
parallel subdiagrams.
	You can subsequently join N parallel sensors into one node
using the JOIN module. You do this by creating a JOIN modules with N
input terminals, and using the "Group Selected Input Terminals..."
item from the Modules menu. The system understands that this single
"super" input terminal is really a set of N separate but parallel
sensor values.
	To combine a set of terminals (input or output) on a module
icon into a super terminal, select the leftmost terminal using the
left mouse button, and them holding the Shift key down select the
rightmost terminal using the left mouse button. Both terminals and all
terminals between them will be highlighted. Now use the Modules menu
to select the Group Selected Input (Output) Terminals... entry. You
will be asked to confirm this grouping, since it cannot be easily
undone. (To undo it later, cut the module using the Edit | Cut menu
item.) 
	The super terminal is indicated by being slightly larger and
by having a red color. But otherwise it is manipulated just like any
other terminal in the diagram.


4.5 Links Menu

This menu enables you to connect (link) together sensor terminals on
the modules, and to edit the properties of those links.

Connect Together Selected Input/Output Terminals:
	Select a terminal by clicking on it with the left mouse
button. Only one output and one input terminal may be selected at one
time, and they must belong to different modules. (In fact, the flow
diagram must be acyclic, but cycles may not be detected until compile
time.) Use this entry to create link between the currently selected
input and output terminals. If there do not exist two such terminals,
nothing will happen.
	At the time you create a link, a check is made that the two
terminals are compatible. An example of incompatible terminals would
be an output terminal that is a DOUBLE (double floating point), and an
input that is an EVENT (an array). If the builder complains about
incompatible types and you don't understand why, you can display a
terminal's description by double-clicking on the terminal with the
left mouse. Also, you can examine the entire config file for the
module using the View menu.

Disconnect Selected Input/Output Terminals:
	Any link between the selected input and output terminals is
removed. 

Edit Parameters for Selected Link:
	You select a link by selecting the input and output terminals
for the link. Using this menu option you can enter the configuration
options for the connection.
	An entry dialog is displayed showing required, optional, and
fixed parameters for the link. Required and optional parameters may
be edited; any default values present in the module's .cfg file are
present initially in the entry fields. 


4.6 Tools Menu

This menu contains a set of utility functions for processing the flow
diagram.

Show Module Palette:
	A palette is displayed from which the available modules can be
selected and placed onto the canvas. The left side of the palette
lists the "families" (groupings) of modules; this grouping makes it
easier to locate the desired module. Having selected a family, you
will see a list of modules in that family in the selection box on the
right. To place a module on the canvas, click on the name of the
module and then click on the canvas where you wish the module to be
placed. An icon with the name of the module will be placed on the
canvas. You can move this icon about until it is in the desired
location; see Section 2, "Graphics and Mouse Conventions".)
	Some modules have an unspecified number of inputs or outputs
in their .cfg description. For these modules, a dialog box is
exhibited before the box is placed onto the canvas. Use this dialog
box to assign names to the inputs (or outputs), and thereby to
determine how many of them there are. The assigned names must be
purely alphabetic, but you may use upper and lower case letters. By
default there are entries for up to five sensor terminals, but you may
create more by clicking on the "More" button. Entries without names
will not produce terminals on the resulting module icon; there will be
exactly as many input or output terminals as there are non-blank
entries.
	Modules from the Source family are handled specially: for
these you must select the input sensors (MSIDs) from the data
dictionary. The data dictionary will be shown, or you will be asked to
enter its pathname. You will then check off the sensor names that are
to be read into the modules from the data acquisition source
(currently ISP).

Compile:
	If the diagram is complete and correct, the workspace is
translated into a .spec file. Otherwise you will be notified of any
errors or incompletions. 

Include C files:
	This gives the opportunity to enter the names of files to
be included (in the C sense) in the generated application code.
Typically, these would be *.h files needed to resolve the function
pointer references required by some modules.


Edit Preferences:
	Use this entry to change the preferences for your
sessions. The preferences are saved in your home directory in a file
entitled ".pirpreferences. Editing this file by hand is not
recommended. A backup of this file in ".pirpreferences~" is made
before replacing it. Also, be sure that color names and font
identifiers are spelled correctly, and that the colormap entries are
available on your system. (Better: use the "Select Color Preferences"
item to select colors; see below.) The xfontsel program can be used to
view and select appropriate fonts on your X Windows system.
	Some of the less obvious options are:
  pirate_directory: the path name of the directory where the pirate
toolkit lives. This directory will normally contain a "modules"
subdirectory.
  module_directory: the name of the pirate toolkit subdirectory where
the module .cfg files live.
  source_family: the name of the modules subdirectory containing the
modules that are "source" (i.e., data acquisition) modules.
  windowXPosition, windowYPosition: when new windows pop up, there is
a (feeble) attempt to place them in a reasonable location. These
coordinates define starting points on the screen for this
location. Play with it.
  helpFont: the font used to display help files.
  titleTextFont: the font used to display the title text, if any, on
the workspace diagram. (See "Add/replace/delete title text" below.)

Select Color Preferences:
	Use this entry to select colors for standard display
objects. First select the type of object to be displayed, then select
a color for that object. As a general rule, background colors should
be light and foreground colors dark. 

Restore Default Preferences:
	This option is useful if invalid preferences are causing
errors. The default values replace your custom ones immediately.

Add/Replace/Delete Title Text:
	You can place a text title on your diagram. This title has no
effect on the resulting compiled file: it is entirely for
documentation purposes.
	To create a title, drag out a rectangle on the canvas using
the left mouse button. Then select the "Add/Replace/Delete Title Text"
option from the Tools menu. An entry box will pop up and allow you to
enter the title text, which will be placed into the rectangle. The
rectangle limits the width of text, not the height. As many lines as
needed will be used to exhibit the text. You can force a line break in
the text by entering the characters "\n".
	To change the text of an existing title, select this option
and edit the text. To delete the title, select this option and click
on the "Delete" button. The title must be deleted and recreated; it
cannot be moved. 
	

4.7 Help menu
	This menu (on the far right-hand side) is used to select a
help page from the table of contents.
	




[$Id: help5.txt,v 1.1.1.1 2006/04/18 20:17:27 taylor Exp $]
