# $Id: help4.txt,v 1.1.1.1 2006/04/18 20:17:27 taylor Exp $

Stanley Mouse and Menu Conventions
--------------------------------------
This page explains the conventions used for the interface between the
user and Stanley.  


Mouse Conventions
-----------------
The "Attention: " lines of the Stanley window indicate which
mouse actions are available when the mouse is positioned
over a component, a module, a mode, a connection, a mode 
transition, an attribute, or a terminal node.

o Use the left mouse button (Mouse-L):
    - to select an item from a cascading menu bar list or a dialog menu.

    - Mouse-L "dragging" will move a component, module. mode, terminal,
    or attribute node to a new location on the canvas.  Its attached
    connections will follow automatically.  To move a node, place the 
    cursor in the center of the icon, depress and hold Mouse-L, 
    drag the icon to the new location (a wire frame will represent 
    it during the motion), and release the button.

    - to move a connection in either the x or y direction.  To move 
    a connection, place the cursor on the line, depress and hold 
    Mouse-L, drag the line to the new location (a wire frame 
    will represent it during the motion), and release the button.

    - to move a component or module "button" terminal from the bottom
    of a node to the top of a node, or vicea-versa.

    - to drag out a rectangular area by depressing and holding 
    Mouse-L, dragging it, and releasing it. A rectangle will appear
    on the canvas with corners where the button was depressed and
    released. Components and modules thus selected will be
    highlighted, and can then be deleted by choosing menu bar item
    "Edit->Delete"

    - to adjust the canvas view by moving the side and bottom
    scrollbars.  

o Use the middle mouse button (Mouse-M);
    - to define a transition between two component modes by 
    depressing and holding Mouse-M, dragging it, and releasing it.

    - to define a connection between two component or module
    terminals by depressing and holding Mouse-M, dragging it, and 
    releasing it.

o Use the right mouse button menu (Mouse-R):
    Components, Modules, Modes, Terminals, Attributes:
    - to select edit or view, as appropriate, to edit properties
    of the node, or to view its current properties.

    - to select "delete <label>" to delete the node.

    Component/module/terminal/attribute buttons:
    - to select "select <label> proposition" to cut-and-paste the
    proposition form into an editable dialog. (schematic mode)

    Terminal buttons:
     - to select "select <label> value(s)" to choose values for
     "instrumented" commands and monitors. (test mode)

    Connections:
    - to select "toggle num breaks" which will toggle the number of
    breaks in the connection from 2 to 4 to 2 ...  The default
    number of breaks when the connection is created is 2.

    - to select "delete connection" to delete the connection.



Menu, and Entry Conventions
----------------------------------------
Menus are selected using Mouse-L, pointing and clicking.  Balloon
help is provided in the editing dialogs, usually tied to the
name of the entry.

Pop-up dialogs follow standard windowing conventions. Entry forms 
allow the user to enter and change text. Position the mouse and enter 
the text or use the delete (or backspace) key to delete text to the 
left. For forms with several entry boxes you can use the tab key to 
jump from one entry to the next.

Text widgets are configured to have GNU Emacs editing key-bindings.
Text widgets that specify Lisp forms also support parentheses matching
and indentation.
